<H1> Journal </H1>
<p> - Listened to the weekly podcast. </p> 
<p> - I found the reading about “Topic Modeling Martha Ballard's Diary” to be fascinating. It had occurred to me before this class that the task of analyzing all the written works could be immense, but necessary to get good historical data. I really like the idea of using MALLET to analyze the language of the text to produce quantitative data instead of qualitative data one would obtain from reading the diaries. Later in the week I noted that that the other Kieran in this class had mentioned wanting to learn more about MALLET and how it works exactly, and I echo this sentiment. Luckily Dr. Graham replied saying we will be working with MALLET in week 4, so I have that to look forward to.  </p> 
<p> - I found the paper about Bentham’s journals to be interesting as well.  The idea of using crowdsourcing to offset some of the cost of transposing historical records is an interesting one. It puts some of the ownership of historical research on the public.  </p> 
<p> - Played around with the Anaconda PowerShell. </p>
<h3> Reflection </h3> 
<p> This week has largely been focused on how historical content is stored online as well as who creates it. Most of the digital historical content I’ve accessed in the past has come in the form of papers on sites like JStor or historical website articles. I had never really given much thought to the process of uploading and hosting historical documents online. I’m beginning to realise now that the way that historical content is hosted and presented online can have a huge impact on how it is consumed. As a historian it is important that one keeps these things in mind when publishing materials online or consuming them. </p> 
<p> The ethics of posting digital history resources has not crossed my mind for more than a brief moment before this course. I found the idea of translating Barnum’s journals to be interesting as I thought that crowdsourcing the transposition was a brilliant way to spread out the human labor needed to digitise the journals. After thinking about it for a while I realised the big problem with using crowdsourcing like this, how can one trust a stranger to be accurate with their information? Of course, you could always have a historian check each of the entries submitted by strangers, but there is still a chance that things might slip through. Another example of this is Wikipedia, which although it is an amazing resource for all kinds of information, cannot be used as an academic source because it gets it’s information from the submissions of random people. It’s a shame that there isn’t really a way to crowdsource information like this without it potentially losing some credibility.</p>
<p> Is it also the ethical duty of the host of digital historical information to make sure that said information is accessible? I have a friend who is blind but navigates the web through the use of a screen reader. He, and others like him, should be able to access any digital information just like anyone else. This is one of the reasons why the format of posted digital information is so important. Posting a jpg scanned from the pages of a historical journal might make it accessible for some, but completely unreadable for anyone using assistive technology. Transposing this journal to screen readable text remedies this issue, but brings back the old issue of the incredible amount of manpower it would take to transpose every historical document. Perhaps a solution to this is to allow the researcher to request documents to be converted to accessible format. This would require that all documents have a description or at least descriptive tags attached to them so people can find what they are looking for without committing to reading them first. </p>
<p> The more I do and read for this class the more questions I have. I didn’t realize how much of digital history was data management. I suppose it makes sense, since historical information is just data, but I am still surprised all the same. I’m getting excited because all my time doing computer science, statistics, and math are finally crossing over with the historical research I love. </p>
